8086/8088 DDK PORT AUDIT
======================

Scope and result
----------------
PORT8086.PY changes only a fresh staged copy returned by build.prepare().
The tracked DDK, original V1 source and frozen V1 binary remain unchanged.
The base port's 62 transitive DDK/include inputs used by its 23 assembly modules
are SHA-256 pinned after CRLF/EOF normalization. Unexpected input fails before
any staged output is written. Files written by the port use CRLF.

The renderer-owned V1.ASM and TCURSOR.ASM contain no later-CPU instructions.
The incompatibilities were inherited from the DDK, including its macros and
runtime code generator. V1 introduced the dependency by selecting this backend
without completing its port to the project's 8088 target. A top-level .8086
directive alone was insufficient.

Inherited incompatibilities and corrections
------------------------------------------
1. CMACROS.INC: its IFDEF ?pmd condition is true even when ?pmd equals zero.
   Consequently its .286p promoted even real-mode code. The staged INC copy
   uses .8086, rejects PMODE, nonzero ?386regs and unsupported TEFTI builds,
   and makes dormant protected-mode ENTER/LEAVE branches explicit errors.
   R:\INC must precede C:\DDK\286\INC in the assembler include path.

2. MACROS.INC and MACROS.MAC: unconditional .286 directives replaced with
   .8086. CPU is set to 88. Shift/rotate macros retain only their existing
   repeated-one-bit 8086 implementations. BITBLT's unused alternate .286p
   directive is also replaced. Baseline prepare already changed top-level
   directives in CHARWDTH, PIXEL and ROBJECT; these did not prevent promotion
   by the later includes.

3. Seventeen immediate-count shift instructions expanded into native one-bit
   shifts: BITBLT 1, CBLT 1, RLSTRBLT 6, RLBLDSTR 3, SPECIAL.INC 6. Counts are
   2, 3 or 8 and operands are registers. Defined CF/SF/ZF/PF and final values
   are retained, with no scratch-register changes. Original OF for counts
   greater than one was undefined.

4. SPECIAL.INC has four PUSHA and five POPA sites. DEBUG.INC has one of each
   in the disabled release-debug macro. The expansions preserve the exact
   eight-word layout: DI, SI, BP, original SP, BX, DX, CX, AX. PUSH SP is not
   used because its 8086 semantics differ from newer processors. LEA/MOV
   recover original SP without altering FLAGS. POPA's ignored SP slot is
   discarded with a dummy POP BX, followed by the real POP BX. ADD SP,2 would
   be incorrect here: a SPECIAL path tests ZF immediately after POPA.
   One expanded backward conditional exceeded rel8 and now uses an inverted
   conditional followed by a near JMP; flags and branch meaning are retained.

5. Immediate PUSH operands:
   - RLBLDSTR has two PUSH 0FFFFh sites, replaced by PUSH of a CS-relative
     immutable delimiter word, preserving every register and FLAGS.
   - POLYLINE's run_the_dda macro pushes an immediate return address in eight
     instantiations. Each now pushes its own CS-relative LOCAL literal after
     the unconditional indirect JMP. The literal is unreachable as code.
   - DEBUG's two immediate arguments use AX already saved by its save-all
     frame. AX is restored by that frame at macro exit.
   Total: five source sites, twelve instantiations including disabled DEBUG.

Runtime-generated instructions and size bound
--------------------------------------------
CBLT loaded I_ROL_AL_N / I_ROR_AL_N, storing C0 C0 nn or C0 C8 nn into the
stack-generated BLT. These are 80186+ instructions, and an assembler's .8086
mode cannot check them. GENCONST's raw constants were the critical hidden
incompatibility.

The generator now emits D0 C0 (ROL AL,1) or D0 C8 (ROR AL,1), repeated by
min(phase,8-phase); phase zero emits nothing. REP STOSW in the generator
consumes CX. Downstream lengths and offsets are computed from DI, so the
variable-length sequences are copied correctly. The stale immediate-rotate
constants and unused FS/GS prefix constants are removed from GENCONST.INC.
The other numeric instruction constants and DB code fragments are 8086-safe;
ROPTABLE and the other copied templates are assembled under .8086.

Worst growth per alignment: eight bytes instead of three, or five bytes.
There can be at most seven copies: two initial fetches, four inner-loop
copies, and one final fetch. That adds at most 35 bytes. Three generated
branches can grow when the code crosses their short-displacement limit:
inner LOOP +4, plane conditional +3, outer LOOP +4. Total growth is bounded
by 46 bytes. MAX_BLT_SIZE is 500, the original 452 plus an even 48-byte
allowance. Both allocation/stack check and deallocation use that constant.
The 492-byte intermediate builds used an incomplete conservative bound and
must be treated as superseded by the 500-byte final build.

Linked-library closure
----------------------
PORT8086.audit_link(renderer, additional_objects=()) parses OMF LNAMES/SEGDEF
records from the base23 plus explicitly named additional TSOFT.LNK input
objects in link order, applies each contribution's
alignment, and requires exact agreement with every nonempty CODE/DATA MAP
segment. It rejects unreviewed 32-bit SEGDEF/COMDAT or segment attributes.
The build's libraries supply imports but no extra CODE/DATA contribution.
This closes the risk of an unscanned library runtime helper. The executable
Windows imports themselves belong to the separately verified real-mode OS.

Reproducible semantic checks
---------------------------
Run from the repository with a fresh output directory:

  python src/tandysw/TEST86.PY --dosbox /path/to/dosbox-x --out /tmp/test86

The script stages and ports its own renderer, generates DOS assembly test
programs from the actual port expansions/generator, assembles with MASM 5.10
.8086, and runs under DOSBox-X 8086_prefetch (four-byte 8088 prefetch queue).
Outputs include assembly, listings, EXEs, build logs, execution logs and
RESULT.json. A 120-second timeout bounds emulator execution.

SEM86: PASS for 128 combinations of arithmetic flags and DF. Checks all
saved registers before/after, every frame slot including original SP,
exact stack depth, and FLAGS preservation by both save and restore.

ROT86: PASS for 4096 generated-code executions: every byte value, all eight
phases, and two contrasting flag patterns. Checks AL/AH, unchanged CX and
all defined FLAGS against native 8086 CL-count rotations. OF is compared
only when defined (counts zero or one).

The test runner also checks CRLF and that applying the patch twice fails.
Strict all-listings opcode checks are provided separately by AUDIT88.PY;
BUILD88.PY uses MASM -LA so .XLIST cannot hide included instructions.

Limitations
-----------
These checks establish reviewed source, opcode, generated-code and semantic
properties. They are not a substitute for Windows GUI workload validation
or testing on physical Tandy 1000 EX/HX hardware. In particular, screenshot
appearance alone does not establish 8088 instruction compatibility, and a
successful real-mode assembly/link does not establish runtime correctness.

Candidate05 DIB extension
-------------------------
PORTDIB.PY adds four pinned DDK inputs and four explicitly audited objects:
BMC_MAIN, BMC_ETI, BMC_ITE and the new SDIB88. Thus the final link has27
objects. All13707 emitted listing rows pass the same8086 instruction audit.
The converter macros resolve through the already strict 8086 staged includes;
the added tables contain palette/expansion data and routine addresses, not
raw generated code. The original hardware DISCREEN and RLE paths are excluded.

OMF class names are compared case-insensitively. Each declared contribution
retains its linker alignment even when length is zero; empty aggregate MAP
segments are omitted from the final comparison. Exact nonempty CODE/DATA
byte totals still must match, so these format corrections do not permit
unknown executable library contributions. Two fresh full builds produce
identical 51296-byte output (see DIB88.MD for hash and runtime scope).
