TANDY START 14 - HOLD OPENS START
Windows 3.0 real mode / 8086

Press and release the Tandy Hold key to open Start from another application.
Start opens on release, so holding the key down cannot select a menu item or
open repeated menus. Escape returns to the application and focused control
that were active before Start opened. Pressing Hold while Start is already
open does not toggle or select anything.

Shift, Ctrl and Alt combinations keep their normal keyboard behavior.
Ctrl+Hold / Ctrl+Break is not reassigned. Standard modal dialogs, capture,
saver operation and shutdown take priority. Hold can still wake a saver;
that wake does not immediately open Start.

INSTALLATION
Use the combined kit's main INSTALL and shell TSSETUP steps in SHELL14.TXT.
The active TSHELL.EXE and TSINPUT.DLL belong in C:\WINDOWS. Companion apps
stay under C:\WINXT. No older update archive is required.
The compatible keyboard driver remains a separate opt-in kit. With the stock
keyboard, use the Start button; automatic Hold activation stays off.

ENABLE / DISABLE
Hold-to-Start defaults on only for the supported Tandy ROM profile in real
mode with TNDYK3.DRV actually loaded as the keyboard driver. Editing
SYSTEM.INI alone does not satisfy that check. With another driver, the normal
Start button remains available and Hold keeps its original behavior.
To disable the shortcut, add or change this entry in TSHELL.INI, then
restart Windows:

[Keyboard]
HoldStart=0

Remove that entry to use the automatic driver-based default again. Setting
HoldStart=1 explicitly opts in with another keyboard driver, but generic
drivers may report mismatched virtual keys when Ctrl changes mid-press.
Use the compatible driver for the full shortcut behavior. A missing or older
TSINPUT.DLL leaves the normal Start button usable and
reports that the Hold shortcut is off.

COMPATIBILITY DETAILS
Hold remains Windows' Scroll Lock key underneath the shortcut. Ordinary
removed/dispatched key messages are consumed for an owned plain Hold gesture.
Programs that inspect PeekMessage without removing input can still observe
it, and programs that poll GetKeyState(VK_SCROLL) still see the toggle bit
change. The shortcut does not rewrite keyboard state. Use the opt-out above
if an application needs ordinary Scroll Lock behavior.

Input arriving while a program is unresponsive is treated conservatively:
stale or interrupted gestures do not open a menu later. Use a fresh press
after the program responds. Normal Windows modal dialogs are detected;
arbitrary custom modal loops cannot always be identified in Windows 3.0.

The DLL's hooks are separate from its existing idle observer. Changing saver
settings does not disable Hold. Normal shutdown removes them. If a detach
cannot complete safely, the code is kept loaded but inert until cleanup or
Windows shutdown. It is never left pointing at freed code by this shell.

INCLUDED EARLIER FEATURES
This includes 13's reduced Browse repainting, validated read-only friendly
filename reader, the 160-pixel System menu fix, date/time correction, and 12's
single Exit Windows item. Hold Shift while selecting Exit for a silent exit.
Existing confirmation and unsaved-document prompts still apply.

TESTS.TXT and SOURCE.ZIP describe the exact verification and limits.
Screenshots are actual emulator captures. The physical EX raw Hold scan has
been confirmed as 46h make / C6h break. Actual Windows-driver and Start-menu
behavior still need confirmation on the Tandy; no physical performance claim
is made.
